# Dandelion - Invite only NFT auctions
tl;dr
Dandelion allows NFT creators and traders to set up secret and exclusive smart contract based auctions. Auction participation is only by invitation from the seller. The bids and the NFT are sealed until the auction is over.

Go in as much detail as you can about what this project is. Please be as clear as possible!
Most NFT trades today happen through large and impersonal NFT marketplaces. Front-running bots snatch NFT drops, depriving community members of the joy in participating. The artistic NFT ecosystem is losing its sense of community. The connections between its members are what make it so special and give it its value. Dandelion empowers community artists and traders to embrace personal connections and to strengthen the ecosystem’s sense of community.
The idea behind Dandelion is to imitate the real life phenomenon of exclusive art auctions as a smart contract. An NFT owner who wants to sell an NFT can create a smart contract with a binding commitment of the NFT. This promises the sale of the NFT without publicly revealing its contents. The seller invites potential buyers and reveals the commitment to them. The buyers then validate it against the commitment in the smart contract, and are able to view the NFT. Next, the buyers send sealed bids to the smart contract. After a predetermined time elapses, the auction closes. Buyer bids are revealed, and the seller transfers the NFT to the smart contract. Finally, the seller can withdraw the tokens swapped for the NFT, the winning bidder can withdraw the NFT and any excess tokens, and everyone else can withdraw their tokens.
Dandelion also provides dedicated user interfaces for both the buyers and the seller. Using the interface, the seller can mint the NFT, initiate the auction and invite buyers. The buyers can bid on the NFT, reveal their bids and withdraw the tokens/NFT.
